.TH katriac 1 "2015-12-25" "Katria Window Manager" "User Commands"
.\" --------------------------------------------------------------------
.SH NAME
katriac \- Client for katriawm
.\" --------------------------------------------------------------------
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBkatriac\fP \fICOMMAND\fP [\fIARGUMENTS\fP]
.\" --------------------------------------------------------------------
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBkatriac\fP can be used to control \fBkatriawm\fP. For example, you
can instruct the WM to move windows, switch workspaces, and so on.
\fBkatriac\fP should be called from a hotkey daemon like \fBsxhkd\fP(1).
.\" --------------------------------------------------------------------
.SH OPTIONS
\fBkatriac\fP expects exactly one command, likely to be followed by some
arguments. The following commands are available:
.TP
\fBclient_close\fP
Ask the currently selected client to gracefully close itself.
.TP
\fBclient_fullscreen_toggle\fP
Toggle fullscreen mode of currently selected client.
.TP
\fBclient_kill\fP
Kill the currently selected client. No questions asked.
.TP
\fBclient_move_list\fP \fItarget\fP
Move the currently selected client in the internal list of clients. This
can affect the tiling layout, for example. \fItarget\fP must be one of
\fBprev\fP, \fBnext\fP.
.TP
\fBclient_move_mouse\fP \fIevent\fP
Move the window which is currently under the mouse pointer. \fIevent\fP
must be one of \fBdown\fP, \fBmotion\fP, \fBup\fP. Note that
\fBclient_move_mouse down\fP can also be used to raise a window.
.TP
\fBclient_resize_mouse\fP \fIevent\fP
Resize the window which is currently under the mouse pointer. \fIevent\fP
must be one of \fBdown\fP, \fBmotion\fP, \fBup\fP.
.TP
\fBclient_select\fP \fItarget\fP
Focus another client on the current workspace. \fItarget\fP must be one
of \fBprev\fP, \fBnext\fP, \fBrecent\fP. \fBrecent\fP selects the
previously selected client on the current workspace.
.TP
\fBclient_switch_monitor\fP \fItarget\fP
Move currently selected client to another monitor. \fItarget\fP must be
one of \fBleft\fP, \fBright\fP.
.TP
\fBclient_switch_workspace\fP \fItarget\fP
Move currently selected client to another workspace on the same monitor.
\fItarget\fP must be one of \fBprev\fP, \fBnext\fP, or an integer
greater than 0 and less than 128 to denote one particular workspace.
.TP
\fBlayout_set\fP \fIalgorithm\fP
Set the layout algorithm on the currently visible workspace on the
currently selected monitor. \fIalgorithm\fP must be one of \fBtile\fP,
\fBmonocle\fP, \fBfloat\fP.
.TP
\fBmonitor_select\fP \fItarget\fP
When multiple monitors are connected to your computer, you can use this
command to select the active monitor. New windows will spawn on that
monitor. \fItarget\fP must be one of \fBleft\fP, \fBright\fP,
\fBrecent\fP, which will navigate to the montior left/right of the
currently active monitor or to the previously selected monitor.
.TP
\fBwm_restart\fP
Causes \fBkatriawm\fP to restart.
.TP
\fBwm_quit\fP
Causes \fBkatriawm\fP to quit.
.TP
\fBworkspace_select\fP \fItarget\fP
Each monitor can display exactly one workspace at a time. You can use
this command to select the active workspace on the currently active
monitor. \fItarget\fP must be one of \fBprev\fP, \fBnext\fP,
\fBrecent\fP or an integer greater than 0 and less than 128 to denote
one particular workspace. \fBrecent\fP will jump to the previously
selected workspace.
.\" --------------------------------------------------------------------
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B DISPLAY
Target display.
.\" --------------------------------------------------------------------
.SH LICENSE
\fBkatriac\fP is released as \(lqPIZZA-WARE\(rq. See the accompanying
\fILICENSE\fP file.
.\" --------------------------------------------------------------------
.SH HISTORY
\fBkatriac\fP was originally written by Peter Hofmann. The project was
started in December 2015.
.\" --------------------------------------------------------------------
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR katriawm (1),
.BR sxhkd (1).
