doc/BARS.md, before:

Using bars with katriawm
========================

In the repo, you can find `src/barinfo` which contains a tool to monitor
and evaluate the root window property `_KATRIA_STATE`. This property
contains some of katriawm’s internal state. See also
[`DOCUMENTATION.md`][katriadoc].

I, myself, use [bevelbar]. This tool was written after katriawm, so the
barinfo tool still contains code to generate output suitable for
[lemonbar].

In fact, I do use two instances of bevelbar: One shows `_KATRIA_STATE`,
the other is a generic info bar. I’ll only talk about the first one
here.

Note that you can configure katriawm’s workarea offsets in your
`config.h` to make room for the bar.

Please also note that there is no need to use either [bevelbar] or
[lemonbar]. These are just examples. However, bevelbar’s visual style
fits best with katriawm’s default theme.

[bevelbar]: https://github.com/vain/bevelbar
[lemonbar]: https://github.com/LemonBoy/bar
[katriadoc]: DOCUMENTATION.md

Running
-------

I suggest you run it like this:

    while sleep 1; do katriabi; done |
    while sleep 1; do bevelbar ...; done

This way, you can put this in your `~/.xinitrc` and simply issue a
`killall katriabi` if you make changes to the binary.

Plus, bevelbar does not handle XRandR changes (nor does lemonbar). This
can be easily worked around by restarting the bar (see also lemonbar’s
[upstream issue][is]). Thus, after doing `xrandr --output ...`, you have
to do a `killall bevelbar` or `killall lemonbar`. A loop like the one
above ensures that the bar will be restarted automatically and continues
to read status information.

For lemonbar, you have to use the `-d` flag to make lemonbar use the
`override_redirect` flag on its windows, so it docks properly.

[is]: https://github.com/LemonBoy/bar/issues/135

Configuration
-------------

katriabi is configured by means of a `config.h` file. A default file
`config.def.h` is provided. It should be pretty self-explanatory, the
main purpose is to define “symbols” for layout algorithms and optional
names for workspaces:

    char *layout_names[LALast] = {
        [LATile] = "[]=",
        ...
    };

    char *ws_names[WORKSPACE_MAX + 1] = {
        [1] = "www",
        [7] = "irc",
        ...
    };

This means that workspace `1` will be displayed as `1:www` and workspace
`7` as `7:irc`. All other workspaces are unaffected.

`config.h` also defines attribute strings for lemonbar.

Commit message:

Remove all code for lemonbar
I'm aware that this might make it a bit harder for new people to try
katriawm, but the lemonbar code was simply unmaintained. I didn't use it
and I don't know of any other person who does. Dead code is bad, so it
has been removed.

doc/BARS.md, after:

Using bars with katriawm
========================

In the repo, you can find `src/barinfo` which contains a tool to monitor
and evaluate the root window property `_KATRIA_STATE`. This property
contains some of katriawm’s internal state. See also
[`DOCUMENTATION.md`][katriadoc].

I, myself, use [bevelbar] which I wrote shortly after writing katriawm
itself. Initially, the barinfo tool also contained code to create output
for [lemonbar], but this has been removed after version v16.12 since it
was unmaintained.

In fact, I do use two instances of bevelbar: One shows `_KATRIA_STATE`,
the other is a generic info bar. I’ll only talk about the first one
here.

Note that you can configure katriawm’s workarea offsets in your
`config.h` to make room for the bar.

Please also note that there is no need to use [bevelbar]. These are just
examples. However, bevelbar’s visual style fits best with katriawm’s
default theme.

[bevelbar]: https://github.com/vain/bevelbar
[lemonbar]: https://github.com/LemonBoy/bar
[katriadoc]: DOCUMENTATION.md

Running
-------

I suggest you run it like this:

    while sleep 1; do katriabi; done |
    while sleep 1; do bevelbar ...; done

This way, you can put this in your `~/.xinitrc` and simply issue a
`killall katriabi` if you make changes to the binary.

Plus, bevelbar does not handle XRandR changes. This can be easily worked
around by restarting the bar. Thus, after doing `xrandr --output ...`,
you have to do a `killall bevelbar`. A loop like the one above ensures
that the bar will be restarted automatically and continues to read
status information.

Configuration
-------------

katriabi is configured by means of a `config.h` file. A default file
`config.def.h` is provided. It should be pretty self-explanatory, the
main purpose is to define “symbols” for layout algorithms and optional
names for workspaces:

    char *layout_names[LALast] = {
        [LATile] = "[]=",
        ...
    };

    char *ws_names[WORKSPACE_MAX + 1] = {
        [1] = "www",
        [7] = "irc",
        ...
    };

This means that workspace `1` will be displayed as `1:www` and workspace
`7` as `7:irc`. All other workspaces are unaffected.
