.TH katriabi 1 "2016-01-06" "Katria Window Manager" "User Commands"
.\" --------------------------------------------------------------------
.SH NAME
katriabi \- Bar information for katriawm
.\" --------------------------------------------------------------------
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBkatriabi\fP [\fIformat\fP]
.\" --------------------------------------------------------------------
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBkatriawm\fP(1) creates a property on the root window. This property
contains some of \fBkatriawm\fP's internal state. It can be used to draw
a bar or \(lqpager\(rq.
.P
\fBkatriabi\fP can monitor said property and create output suitable for
display in a bar. That is, you should pipe the output of \fBkatriabi\fP
into the bar of your choice.
.\" --------------------------------------------------------------------
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fIformat\fP
Can be one of \fBbevelbar\fP, \fBlemonbar\fP. The default is
\fBlemonbar\fP.
.P
When \fBbevelbar\fP is selected, \fBkatriabi\fP uses the following
styles:
.TP
0
Unselected layout icon.
.TP
1
Selected layout icon. This is used to indicate the current monitor.
.TP
2
Occupied workspace.
.TP
3
Current workspace.
.TP
4
Urgent workspace.
.TP
5
Current workspace if urgent.
.P
When \fBlemonbar\fP is selected, \fBkatriabi\fP uses format strings as
configured in your \fIconfig.h\fP at compile time.
.\" --------------------------------------------------------------------
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B DISPLAY
Target display.
.\" --------------------------------------------------------------------
.SH LICENSE
\fBkatriabi\fP is released as \(lqPIZZA-WARE\(rq. See the accompanying
\fILICENSE\fP file.
.\" --------------------------------------------------------------------
.SH HISTORY
\fBkatriabi\fP was originally written by Peter Hofmann. The project
was started in December 2015.
.\" --------------------------------------------------------------------
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR katriawm (1),
.BR bevelbar (1),
.BR lemonbar (1).
