.TH katriac 1 "2017-09-16" "Katria Window Manager" "User Commands"
.\" --------------------------------------------------------------------
.SH NAME
katriac \- Client for katriawm
.\" --------------------------------------------------------------------
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBkatriac\fP \fICOMMAND\fP [\fIARGUMENTS\fP]
.\" --------------------------------------------------------------------
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBkatriac\fP can be used to control \fBkatriawm\fP. For example, you
can instruct the WM to move windows, switch workspaces, and so on.
\fBkatriac\fP should be called from a hotkey daemon like \fBsxhkd\fP(1).
.\" --------------------------------------------------------------------
.SH OPTIONS
\fBkatriac\fP expects exactly one command, likely to be followed by some
arguments. The following commands are available:
.TP
\fBclient_center_floating\fP
If the currently selected client is floating, center it on the currently
selected monitor.
.TP
\fBclient_close\fP
Ask the currently selected client to gracefully close itself.
.TP
\fBclient_floating_toggle\fP
Toggle floating mode of currently selected client.
.TP
\fBclient_fullscreen_toggle\fP
Toggle fullscreen mode of currently selected client.
.TP
\fBclient_kill\fP
Kill the currently selected client. No questions asked.
.TP
\fBclient_maximize_floating\fP
If the currently selected client is floating, maximize it on the
currently selected monitor.
.TP
\fBclient_move_list\fP \fItarget\fP
Move the currently selected client in the internal list of clients. This
can affect the tiling layout, for example. \fItarget\fP must be one of
\fBprev\fP, \fBnext\fP.
.TP
\fBclient_move_mouse\fP \fIevent\fP
Move the window which is currently under the mouse pointer. \fIevent\fP
must be one of \fBdown\fP, \fBmotion\fP, \fBup\fP. Note that
\fBclient_move_mouse down\fP can also be used to raise a window.
.TP
\fBclient_resize_mouse\fP \fIevent\fP
Resize the window which is currently under the mouse pointer. \fIevent\fP
must be one of \fBdown\fP, \fBmotion\fP, \fBup\fP.
.TP
\fBclient_select\fP \fItarget\fP
Focus another client on the current workspace. \fItarget\fP must be one
of \fBprev\fP, \fBnext\fP, \fBrecent\fP. \fBrecent\fP selects the
previously selected client on the current workspace.
.TP
\fBclient_switch_monitor\fP \fItarget\fP
Move currently selected client to another monitor. \fItarget\fP must be
one of \fBleft\fP, \fBright\fP.
.TP
\fBclient_switch_workspace\fP \fItarget\fP
Move currently selected client to another workspace on the same monitor.
\fItarget\fP must be one of \fBprev\fP, \fBnext\fP, or an integer
\fIi\fP where \fI0 <= i <= 127\fP to denote one particular workspace.
.TP
\fBfloaters_collect\fP
Fit all floating clients of the current workspace to the current
monitor. Some of them might have moved around.
.TP
\fBlayout_set\fP \fIalgorithm\fP
Set the layout algorithm on the currently visible workspace on the
currently selected monitor. \fIalgorithm\fP must be one of \fBtile\fP,
\fBmonocle\fP, \fBfloat\fP.
.TP
\fBmonitor_select\fP \fItarget\fP
When multiple monitors are connected to your computer, you can use this
command to select the active monitor. New windows will spawn on that
monitor. \fItarget\fP must be one of \fBleft\fP, \fBright\fP,
\fBrecent\fP, which will navigate to the montior left/right of the
currently active monitor or to the previously selected monitor.
.TP
\fBplacement_store\fP \fIslot\fP
The current window placement can be saved in one of eight slots.
\(lqPlacement\(lq means a client's workspace, a client's monitor, the
currently active layouts, and the currently active workspace on each
monitor. In other words, this operation does not save a client's pixel
coordinates. \fIslot\fP must be an integer \fIi\fP where \fI0 <= i <=
10\fP.
.TP
\fBplacement_use\fP \fIslot\fP
Restores a previously saved layout. See \fBplacement_store\fP. Note that
this is a \(lqbest effort\(rq operation. For example, if you store a
layout that comprises three monitors, you can restore it later on even
when there are only two monitors connected. Clients on the
\(lqmissing\(rq monitor will be moved to the very first monitor.
.TP
\fBurgency_clear_visible\fP
Clears the urgency hint on all currently visible windows.
.TP
\fBurgency_mute_toggle\fP
Toggles \(lqmute mode\(rq. When enabled, there won't be any indicators
showing window urgency. Urgency hints are still managed, though, so upon
disabling mute mode, you will instantly see which windows have their
urgency hint set.
.TP
\fBwm_restart\fP
Causes \fBkatriawm\fP to restart.
.TP
\fBwm_quit\fP
Causes \fBkatriawm\fP to quit.
.TP
\fBworkspace_select\fP \fItarget\fP
Each monitor can display exactly one workspace at a time. You can use
this command to select the active workspace on the currently active
monitor. \fItarget\fP must be one of \fBprev\fP, \fBnext\fP,
\fBrecent\fP or an integer \fIi\fP where \fI0 <= i <= 127\fP to denote
one particular workspace. \fBrecent\fP will jump to the previously
selected workspace.
.\" --------------------------------------------------------------------
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B DISPLAY
Target display.
.\" --------------------------------------------------------------------
.SH LICENSE
\fBkatriac\fP is released under the MIT license. See the accompanying
\fILICENSE\fP file.
.\" --------------------------------------------------------------------
.SH HISTORY
\fBkatriac\fP was originally written by Peter Hofmann. The project was
started in December 2015.
.\" --------------------------------------------------------------------
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR katriawm (1),
.BR sxhkd (1).
